---
roman_numeral: I
npcs: [ambrel, citeron, faberio, hooper, juanex, lancit, meglugic, pinch, vencia]
locations: ["Farm Bureau", "Myrinath", "Oppidum Septendecim"]
species: [bulette, centaur, goblin, orc]
items: ["Familial Continuity Index (FCI)", "Imperial Assay"]
groups: ["Imperial Scout", "PMNA Corps"]
---
[The Myrinath Mirror Vol. I]({% link /assets/pdf/Myrinath_Mirror_Vol_1.pdf %})

# **IMPERIAL SUCCESSION**
Her Imperial Majesty, the Empress Vencia Sailatar, has engaged another consort - Faberio Lazoni - in a continuing effort to bear an heir to the throne and continue the unbroken Sailatar reign over our Glorious Empire. Malicious rumors, originating with malcontent members of the ever hopeful Meglugic family, insinuate that Faberio was selected for no other reason than his dreamy eyes and generally luxurious comportment.

It cannot be denied that the presence of Faberio has a deleterious effect on the concentration of anyone in the vicinity. Nor can it be refuted that compared to previous consorts, such as legendary Mage Citeron, the brilliant tactician Lancit, and the wise ex- Archimandrite Juanex, Faberio lacks the most rudimentary gravitas. Yet your intrepid reporter believes Faberio has the best chance of them all at furthering the Sailatar line (as well as boosting sales of this edition of the Mirror).

caption: Faberio Lazoni, the latest Imperial Consort

# Agrarian Paradise
The area surrounding Oppidum Septendecim has been opened up for homesteading! Not for the faint of heart. Orcs and goblins bands roam and reeve the area. Imperial scouts report the most dangerous creatures in the area are a herd of Bulettes sheparded by Centaur anarchists.
Apply at the Farm Bureau for your license. You and your family will receive a temporary deed to 50 acres of prime farmland within a mile of the river, three short swords, and a mule. The land has been determined by Imperial Assay to well irrigable, pH 6.5 (+/- 0.2), and at least 85% arable. Once 200 bushels of wheat have been harvested and sold at verified Imperial Markets, you will be granted a full, permanent deed and be eligible to claim more land.
This area is currently designated 3+ on the Familial Continuity Index (FCI). Reminder that the FCI score of a region indicates a 75% or greater chance of inheritance chains remaining intact should the indexed inheritor be assigned head of household in that region. (Myrinath was initially an FCI 4.5, so Oppidum Septendecim is a real bargain!)

# Mysterious Missing Cats
The Widow Ambrel is grieving the apparent loss of her fourth cat this month. Our beloved Ambrel, along with her late husband, are proud veterans of the PMNA corps and directly responsible for the Glorious Imperial Victories leading to the founding of Myrinath over two centuries ago. Keep an eye out, neighbors!

# Halfling Sues Grocer, Cites Belittling Remarks
There was no shortage of umbrage at the courthouse last week when Pinch Berrytoe made good on his threat to cut Mr. Hooper down to size. Hooper denied any wrong doing, saying he had befriended the wayward halfling out of pity. “I thought he needed someone to look up to,” said Hooper. No verdict was reached as the judge had to stop the proceedings short due to little evidence.
